# Week Five Blog Post
Technology can and has improved the lives of many people.  We have so much knowledge and power in the palm of our hands. However, there are downsides to technology that go beyond wasting time or affecting our relationships. This week the readings and videos really explained the need to consider how the new media and information technology industries are affecting the poor.  
	The Op-Ed called “Your job is about to get ‘taskified’ makes it clear that this new technology age has changed society in a drastic way similar to the Industrial Revolution. The assembly lines of manufacturing are now being replaced with a “global digital assembly line” (Gray). Workers are using crowdwork sites to complete tasks for large and small companies who post individual job assignments. These workers, like an Uber driver, are not employees of the company, but free-lance, independent workers.  They do not get any of the benefits or protection of a full time worker of the companies they are completing the tasks for. Most of these workers are the working poor. Crowd Work sites may bring companies and workers together, but it is at a cost. “The right to be paid for one’s labor is no longer guaranteed” (Gray). It is too easy for these crowdwork sites to kick people off the platform because user agreements are so broad. If you rely on these sites to make a living, one day your customers and  even payments owed to you could be gone without explanation.  It took decades for labor laws and welfare to be put in place to protect the vulnerable poor and worker from being taken advantage of. Now it appears that “the state and national governments need to reset their labor rules and reweave social safety nets” (Gray). 
	In the video, “Automating Inequality”, it is explained how technology is being used to complicate the social welfare and assistance programs to divert people away from getting assistance. At the same time, the technology has connected so many government departments that the “the system makes it easy for people to be tracked and criminalized” (Eubanks). Once a person enters the government welfare system data is collected and algorithms are used to decide who is deserving, and who is not deserving, of receiving benefits. In Indiana, the algorithms are actually used to “predict if a child is endanger of neglect or abuse” (Eubanks). Based on a computer recommendation, your child can be removed from your home and put into foster care!  She says there are similar database algorithms that are used to predict a released felon’s chance of committing another crime. The video raises the point that these tech databases are causing more harm to the poor and that algorithms can hide biases.  Currently, there are ways to fire biased people, but it is way harder to prove that an algorithm is discriminating. 
	The last reading, “Rethinking Repair” and the video, “E Waste Hell” opened my mind to something I never really thought about….what happens to all the old technology hardware when it’s outdated or broken?  I assumed it was all recycled.  However, the video, “E Waste Hell”, explained how 500 container load every month are being illegally shipped to Ghana. Most waste ends up in dumps and is burned to harvest the scrap metal.  Again, it’s the poor that are the most affected. Toxic smoke is affecting the growth and development of the children and contaminating the food in local markets, and polluting the air with heavy metals and toxic chemicals.  The last reading of the week, “Rethinking Repair”, is suggesting to the tech community to consider repair and maintenance when developing their products which seems like a common sense approach.  The author makes the argument that those that breakdown, maintain and repair technology can offer a different perspective that should not be dismissed. However, there is pushback…those against using their ideas say that “reparability was an increasingly outdated virtue in electronics and in any case a necessary victim of the trend toward ever more compact and mobile design” (Jackson, 237). “Most designers believe the “vast majority of consumers are more inclined to throw away than repair” (Jackson, 237). I think we need to start thinking about the breakdown, repair and maintenance in innovation, so more e-waste is kept out of landfills, and from poisoning the poor.
	Why should we care about the poor?  Virginia Eubanks says, “We should care about the poor morally, but if not, it’s in our self-interest to pay attention to what is happening because it will eventually happen to all of us”(Eubanks). I agree. 

Works Cited
Dateline, SBS. “E-Waste Hell.” YouTube, YouTube, 25 Sept. 2011, www.youtube.com/watch?v=dd_ZttK3PuM.
Eubanks, Virginia. “Databite No. 106: Virginia Eubanks, Alondra Nelson, Julia Angwin.” Data & Society, datasociety.net/events/databite-no-106-automating-inequality-virginia-eubanks-in-conversation-with-alondra-nelson-and-julia-angwin/.
Gray, Mary. “Op-Ed: Your Job Is about to Get 'Taskified'.” Los Angeles Times, Los Angeles Times, 9 Jan. 2016, www.latimes.com/opinion/op-ed/la-oe-0110-digital-turk-work-20160110-story.html.
Jackson, Steven J. “Rethinking Repair.” Media Technologies, 2014, pp. 221–240., doi:10.7551/mitpress/9780262525374.003.0011.



# Week Four Blog Post
As I was reading the article called, “ Your Apps Know Where You Were Last Night, and They’re Not Keeping It a Secret” it was really creeping me out and makes me not want to be on me phone because the government could be using this information against me. This new app is really funny but now after reading this article, I’m glad I never tried that face app. They know have pictures of your face and can use it for anything. Throughout this article, it talked about Margrin and how an app on her cell phone was tracking everywhere she went because she let the app use her location. She thought this was very disturbing. But this actually no law that prevents this according to the article. “There is no federal law limiting the collection or use of such data” (Valentino-Devries, SInger, Keller, and Krolik 1) Whenever an app asks you if you if it can access your location, it never tells you what is will be used for specifically. That is something that I think should change. “Even industry insiders acknowledge that many people either don’t read those policies or maybe not fully understand their opaque language.” (Valentino-Devries, SInger, Keller, and Krolik 1) This is actually true with me because I literally always just say the apps can access my location. A question that came to me is, wouldn’t these apps need probable cause, like in the 4th amendment? A really creepy thing that has happened to some people I know and when I was with my sister at our cabin, I actually witnessed it. My sister was talking about chinese food while a couple of us were just sitting in our kitchen. She then goes back on her phone and sees an ad for chinese food on one of her apps. I just think that is almost not okay because that is our personal conversations and stuff. I clearly think that it’s really creepy, but at the same time when I really think about it, I mean I don't have anything to hide anyways. So what is the government going to do with my information anyways. I just don’t want someone listening to me and everything I talk about.  
I read another article that was “Edward Snowden: the whistleblower behind the NSA surveillance revelations”. Edward Snowden told everyone what the government was doing, he is the one that figured it out. “He has had "a very comfortable life" that included a salary of roughly $200,000, a girlfriend with whom he shared a home in Hawaii, a stable career, and a family he loves. "I'm willing to sacrifice all of that because I can't in good conscience allow the US government to destroy privacy, internet freedom and basic liberties for people around the world with this massive surveillance machine they're secretly building."” (Greenwald, MacAskill, and Poitras 1) I think it's really cool that he figured it out, but I can’t believe he is willing to risk all of that and a good life. I agree with him, the government needs to be stopped. 

Works cited: 

Valentino-devries, Jennifer, et al. “Your Apps Know Where You Were Last Night, and They're Not Keeping It Secret.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 10 Dec. 2018 

Greenwald, Glenn, et al. “Edward Snowden: the Whistleblower behind the NSA Surveillance Revelations.” The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 11 June 2013 


##Self-Portrait . 
[Hyperlink Self Portrait](Self_portrait/Mari_Hinkle.html) . 

# Week Three Blog Post 
Computers and how they work have never interested me, so other than sending an email, surfing and streaming the latest viral video, I know very little about how they do what they do. This self portrait assignment was so terrifying for me that I marched right into my academic advisor’s office to drop the class.  Needless to say, my request was denied and I needed to do something that is very hard for me to do….ask for help. I started with my inner circle; my teammates.  No one knew how to code html, so at least I felt LESS stupid.  If html was common knowledge and I was in the minority, I probably would have packed my bags and headed home.  After some self-reflection, I realized my pride was getting the best of me. 
I have been a volleyball player since I was nine years old.  I consider myself a perfectionist and I have never backed down from a challenge.  Up until now, all of my challenges have been sports related.  I would practice harder, watch more film and work my way to the next level. This was different. I had no idea where to begin. I thought about Ted Nelson’s dream in Computer Lib/Dream Machines.  He believed computers were for the masses. He wrote, “Everybody should understand computers” (Nelson 303) and that included me.  The creator of hypertext believed that “computers are an aspect of everything, and not to know this is computer illiteracy, a silly and dangerous ignorance” (Nelson, 303). The last thing I wanted to be called was illiterate and Ted Nelson didn’t think I should be illiterate either.  Therefore, HTML had to be relatively easy. Right? I just needed to dig in.  After a few tutorial videos and some tutoring from others, I was able to complete the assignment.  It’s not going to win any website design awards, but it’s done.
If I could create a webpage, anyone could do it. Anyone could publish their firsthand accounts of events, with photos and videos, for the world to examine.  One webpage at a time could be the way we create the world encyclopedia referred to by HG Wells in the World Brain: The Idea of a Permanent Encyclopedia.  Access to information would no longer be restricted. “This in itself is a fact of tremendous significance. It foreshadows a real intellectual unification of our race. The whole human memory can be, and probably in a short time will be made accessible to every individual” (Wells, 2). The power of knowledge will be made available to all through the internet and through the ideas of all the visionaries we have read about to date.  I’m grateful for the experience of learning to use HTML. It’s empowering to know that if I needed to share my story with the world, I would have a way to do it.  

Works Cited
Nelson, T. (1987). Computer lib ; dream machines. Redmond, Wash.: Tempus Books of Microsoft Press.
Wells, H. (1937). World Brain.



# Week Two Blog Post 

There have been so many times in my life where I have sat down at the computer to research something and hours later I’m watching a video about a Beetle in Africa or something.  This week I learned that internet search engines where designed that way and like most amazing inventions, it was developed out of frustration.  In the first Week #2 reading, As We May Think, Vannevar Bush was writing to encourage the scientific community to continue sharing the vast amount of knowledge that was learned during World War II.  During the war, “the scientist, burying their old professional competition in the demand of a common cause, shared greatly and learned much.” (Bush 2) Bush wanted the scientists to continue advancing technology through shared research and did not want to go back to hoarding knowledge.  In 1945, Bush wrote “The world has arrived at an age of cheap complex devices of great reliability; and something is bound to come of it” (Bush 3). He seemed to be envisioning that one of these machines could be the record where information could be shared.  He wanted “a record, if it is to be useful to science, must be continuously extended, it must be stored, and above all it must be consulted” (Bush 3). In this article, Bush was envisioning the first network computer system.  He imagined on top of a desk, “slanting translucent screens, on which material can be projected for convenient reading. There is a keyboard, and sets of buttons and levers” (Bush 10).  Was Bush the first person to image the personal computer?  He even went a step further to suggest that sometime in the future, information could be transmitted directly to the brain!  What must have sounded like a hallucinogenic fantasy in 1945 and it may actually happen soon. 

The last three readings of week #2, gave me an understanding on the thought processes involved in designing the search interfaces for organizing, searching, finding and sharing vast amounts of information. The author of Information Management: A Proposal”, Berners-Lee was frustrated with the amount of information that was being lost at CERN simply because one couldn’t find it.  Berners-Lee as well as Marcia Bates, the author of the article, The Design of Browsing and Berrypicking Techniques for the Online Search Interface both argued for Hypertext to be used in the design of their search programs. Hypertext was first coined by Ted Nelson, in 1965.  This was 25 years before these articles.  Nelson explained hypertext “to mean a body of written or pictorial material interconnected in such a complex way that it could not conveniently be presented or represented on paper” (Wardrip-Fruin 2).  At the time when Nelson wrote about Hypertext as the network interface of the future and how it would transform everyone’s lives, he was laughed at and ridiculed.
	
In the second week #2 article, From Computer Lib/Dream Machines, I read about Ted Nelson’s dreams and visions for the computer to become personal. I take for granted the computer I carry in my hand every day.  I didn’t realize that to bring the computer to the masses, people would have to rebel against the establishment and fight the power of large corporations and government to make it happen. On a personal note, I wish his ideas on transforming education would happen.  I took an online class in high school and it was the most boring class ever.  It was entirely Computer Aided Instruction and it did everything Nelson said it would… [It removed opportunity for initiative and creativity and was conducive to boredom] (Nelson 311).  Maybe his proposal was too threatening to the establishment more than Hypertext, therefore, it will take longer to come to fruition.  I too would like to “discard the sequences, items and conversation, and allow the student to move freely through materials which he may control. Motivate the user and let him loose in a wonderful place“ (Nelson 313).  That is exactly what happens on those browsing excursions that start with me checking the weather and ending up reading an article on the shifting of the magnetic poles. It’s the hypertext that puts the world’s knowledge in the palm of my hand and I’m glad that Ted Nelson got the last laugh.   

#### Works Cited: 
Bates, M. (1989) “The Design of Browsing and Berrypicking Techniques for the Online Search Interface”.
Bush, V. (1948). “As we may think.: The Atlantic Monthly, 101-108.
Berners-Lee, T. (1989) “Information management: A proposal.”
Nelson, T.H. (2003 [1974]). Excerpts from “Computer Lib/Dream Machines.” In N. Wardrip- Fruin and N. Montfort (Eds.), The New Media Reader, pp. 303-338.
Wardrip-Fruin, N. (2004) “What Hyer-text is”.






# Week One Blog Post 

To be honest, the thought of how the internet was created or how it has impacted society never entered my mind. It is something I use every day without considering how it has impacted the way I communicate and form relationships with others. The first reading Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph, changed my understanding of the telegraph completely. I never realized the impact it had on society by completely changing the way people communicated. As the article stated, “It permitted for the first time the effective separation of communication from transportation” (Carey 3). For the first time in history, people did not have to communicate face to face or rely on transportation to deliver their messages. It developed new forms of language, particularly shortening the amount of words for communication and removing much of the prose seen in letter writing. The telegraph clearly was the precursor to the internet. The internet expanded the principles of the telegraph where communication was separate from geography, to one where communication was separated from the infrastructure use to send it (Esperanto for Machines 198) .
					
With the examples of new technologies in the reading, The Master Switch, I found it interesting how each new technology went through a cycle which resulted in a “highly centralized and integrated new industry” (Wu 6). Each industry passed through the phases of “somebody’s hobby to somebody’s industry; from freely accessible channel to one strictly controlled by a single corporation or cartel – from and open to closed system” (Wu 6). That which was first intended to free society from some constraint, like geography, usually ended with the people controlled by the monopoly that owned the technology. It is important that this never happens to the internet, but I’m concerned that regulation by governments or the ability of the larger companies like Google and Facebook to control who has access to information may make the internet less free.
					
In the reading Engineering a Principle “: End-to End” in the Design of the Internet, the author talks about “end to end” being a phrase used by the developers not only to describe the structure of the network, but as a metaphor that the power is in the user should not be controlled by one entity. I agree that the internet should be a fully free exchange of information. The one who controls what information we receive, controls the world. I like how what was a phrase to describe the technology as morphed into a political rallying cry....“the Internet is end-to-end, until someone makes it otherwise" (Gillespie 443). I’m relieved to know that people have already developed low tech solutions to building the internet. Those described in the reading How to Build a Low Tech Internet will allow the internet to survive “if the fuel supply is interrupted, the electrical infrastructure deteriorates, when the economy grinds to a halt, or if other calamities should hit” (De Decker, 3). I find it comforting to know that if some doomsday scenario should occurs, the internet and the free flow of information will continue. We don’t need to rely on governments or companies, we can build our own communication networks. 

#### Works Cited: 

Carey, J. (2009). Technology and Ideology: The Case of the Telegraph.
De Decker, C. (2019). How to Build a Low-tech Internet. [online] LOW-TECH MAGAZINE. 
Gillespie, T. (2006) Engineering a Principle: 'End-to-End' in the Design of the Internet. Social Studies of Science, Vol. 36, No. 3. Sage Publications.
Wu, T. (2010) The Master Switch: The Rise and Fall of Information Empires. Chapters 1 and 15, pages 3 -14, and 196-203.


 
 
